So again you're staying here.
Let's make that you're staying here informal.
Tequidas aquí.
Good.
You're not staying here
Note quedas aquí.
No te quedas aquí.
Now if you want to make that the question, aren't you staying here?
Good.
Why aren't you staying here?
Very good.
What was I go or I'm going?
I'm going on a voyage.
Boy.
Boy, good.
So how do you think you would say I am going to stay?
I'm going to remain myself.
Voy a quedarme.
Good.
Until seven.
Until seven o'clock.
Seven is siete, similar to the beginning of September.
September in Spanish actually is either septiembre or septiembre.
You have two versions of it in Spanish.
Septiembre with the P or without the P, Septiembre.
And you can see how siete is like the beginning set.
With the split of the E.
So I'm going to stay, I'm going to remain myself until 7 o'clock.
I'm going to stay until 7 o'clock
Good.
Very good.
How do you say I want to stay?
Good.
Do you want to stay?
Let's talk informally.
Quieres quedarte?
Good.
Very good.
Quieres quedarte?
Do you want to remain yourself?
What was I must or I owe?
Debo.
Debo, good.
What is we o or we must?
And the two form is deber, deber, to o.
So we
Good.
We must stay.
So we all to remain ourselves.
Debemos quedarme quedarnos.
Good.
Debemos quedarnos.
Of course this nos or me o te can come at the beginning as well.
Nos debemos quedar.
Debemos quedarnos.
Good.
What was I have in the sense of possession?
So not a beer, the other have.
Tingo.
Tengo
So if we add on ke to tengo, we get the meaning of have to, which is just like debo but less serious sounding, just like in English.
I must stay sounds a little bit more serious than I have to stay.
And that difference in register, how it feels, is the same in Spanish.
So how would you say I have to stay?
Tengo que darme.
Good.
And how would you say you have to stay speaking informally?
Tienes que quedarte.
Good.
You have to stay here, informally still.
Tienes que quedar te aquí.
Good.
I want to know why you have to stay here.
I want to know.
First bit, don't think about the whole sentence, just think of I want.
Quiero saber.
Good.
Now forget that bit.
Why?
Porque.
You have to stay here.
tienes que quedarte aquí.
Good.
Very good.
Quiero saber por qué tienes que quedarte aquí.
Good.
What does I can or I have the power to Puedo?
I can stay.
Good.
Puedo quedarme.
I can't stay.
No puedo quedarme.
Good.
Do you remember how to say tonight?
Or this night?
Esta noche.
Good.
I can't stay tonight.
No puedo quedarme esta noche.
Good.
The two forms of cal is poder, poder.
And this always splitting when we
stress it and say puedo poder so how would you say we can or we are able?
Podemos.
Very good.
We can stay
No podemos quedarnos esta noche.
Good.
What was to think?
Or to be pensive, to think.
Good, pensar.
We think pensamos.
Good.
You think in formal?
Pensas.
Good, it should be pensas.
Piensa.
Good.
What do you think?
Now if we want to say do you plan on staying here tonight, we can just say do you think to stay here tonight?
Do you think to stay here tonight?
So how would we say this informally?
Now how would you say I have stayed?
I have stayed or I have remained myself.
I have stayed.
He quedado me.
I don't want you to guess and see where it feels good.
So with logic you want to place it.
And if you're wrong, it's fine, because if you got there through a faltered logic, you will change the logic through that mistake.
So tell me the rule about where that may can go.
It goes after the two form and before everything else?
Before the changed verb.
It's very important the way we instruct ourselves.
Now I'm giving you always the simplest way that we can instruct ourselves accurately.
If I tell you before the verb and you tell yourself at the beginning, you lose something.
You lose a certain clarity.
Yeah, because nouns might come into the sentence and then Exactly.
We have stayed, we have remained ourselves
Nos hemos quedado.
Very good.
We haven't stayed.
No nos hemos quedado.
Very good.
You have stayed.
Informal.
Te has quedado.
Good.
Make it the question.
Have you stayed?
Te has quedado?
Good.
And let's be emphatic now.
Let's say the word for you.
Tú te has quedado.
Good.
Let's make it negative now.
Haven't you haven't you stayed?
Good.
Tu no te has quedado, good.
Y amar
in Spanish is to call or to phone to telephone llamar el which we said is pronounced like why in most of Spanish speaking world to call.
Llamar.
How do you say I call?
Yamo.
If you want to introduce yourself, instead of saying my name is in Spanish, it's much more common to say I call myself.
Meyamo.
And then you can introduce yourself.
Meyamo Michalis, for example.
How would you say you call yourself informal?
Te llamas.
Good.
If you want to ask the name, you will say how do you call yourself?
And the word for how is como.
So how do you say how do you call yourself?
Komoteyamas.
Good, komoteyamas.
You might have heard this around and not understood actually how it's being constructed.
And now we understand it.
It's how do you call yourself, komoteyamas.